docs/source/create_forms.md, before:

# Create New Forms

Portfolio Backend allows to create custom form extensions.

```{warning}
Adapting Portfolio can lead to incompatibilities with other Portfolios and Showroom.
```

Necessary steps:

* Create a schema in `src/portfolio/core/schemas/entries`
* Add schema to [`ACTIVE_SCHEMAS`](./configuration.md#active_schemas) in django `.env`

## Specifications for Frontend

In order for the frontend to display the newly designed form properly, it is necessary to adapt the x-attributes
of each field accordingly, otherwise the display will always be a plain text field.

### Setting x-attributes for the Frontend

Available attributes:

| attribute             | relevant for                     | default*                                                                 | allowed values                                                                                                                    | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|-----------------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| hidden                | all                              | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | indicate if this data attribute should be considered for form creation (e.g. true for id)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| field_format          | all                              | full                                                                     | full, half                                                                                                                        |  specify if the field should fill full width or half in a form<br> (in case it is a 'half' field make sure it has a second 'half' field as well, otherwise the space will be empty)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| field_type            | all                              | text                                                                     | text, autocomplete, chips, chips-below, date, multiline, group                                                                    | which kind of field should be shown front-end:<br>**text**: simple text field<br> **autocomplete**: text field with autocomplete functionality (source needed!)<br> **chips**: input field with options (optional: dynamic autocomplete) that creates chips out of selected options<br>(if single or multi chips will be determined automatically from field type being an array or object)<br> **chips-below**: same as chips, however chips are not added inline but below the input field<br> **date**: a date field (different formats)<br> **multiline**: a multiline text field<br> **group**: indicates that the fields specified within should be grouped |
| placeholder           | all                              | -                                                                        | string or object                                                                                                                  | Add a placeholder displayed in the input field<br>  A string for all fields except date fields - there it should be an object with 'date' and (if necessary) 'time' attributes that contain the relevant string<br> default placeholder ('Enter xxx') can be added with utils function `placeholder_lazy(label)`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| order                 | all                              | this should be specified for all fields otherwise sorting will be random | number                                                                                                                            | this will specify the order in which the fields are displayed in the form                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| source                | chips, chips-below, autocomplete | -                                                                        | a API endpoint                                                                                                                    | if the field has a autocomplete functionality (autocomplete field or dynamic chips inputs (`dynamic_autosuggest = true`) or options (`dynamic_autosuggest = false`) this route is **required** to fetch these options<br> (the base url for the API is specified in the front end configuration)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| source_*              | chips, chips-below               | -                                                                        | a API endpoint                                                                                                                    | as above, to specify additional sources (URLs) for prefetching<br> (e.g. used for text types --> source_type or roles --> source_roles)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| prefetch              | chips, chips-below               | []                                                                       | e.g. 'source'                                                                                                                     | specify the attributes that contain an URL where options should be prefetched (=for chips inputs that are not dynamic!)<br> (for the example above e.g. 'source', 'source_types', 'source_roles')                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| set_label_language    | chips                            | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | specify if the field data have language specific content (e.g. { 'en': 'xxx', 'de': 'yyy' })<br> (e.g. true for languages or materials fields)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| date_format           | date                             | day                                                                      | day, month, year, date_year                                                                                                       | the format of the date field, if day, month or year it will only be possible to enter those, if date_year switch buttons will be displayed to allow switching between day and year format                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| dynamic_autosuggest   | chips                            | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | define if chips should have a dynamic autocomplete --> this means matching results are live fetched from the API on user input                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| allow_unknown_entries | chips                            | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | define if only options available in the chips input drop down can be used or user can just enter any string                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| sortable              | chips, chips-below               | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | should chips be sortable                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| default_role          | chips                            | -                                                                        | a contributors uri (as defined in VocBench/Skosmos) <br> e.g. http://base.uni-ak.ac.at/portfolio/vocabulary/software_developer    | this is relevant for all contributors related fields, in order to save the relevant role, a uri needs to be specified here<br> can be done with `function get_uri(role)`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| equivalent            | chips                            | -                                                                        | a field name, e.g. 'contributors'                                                                                                 | attribute to indicate that this field is connected to more general field (atm only used for contributors)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| show_label            | groups                           | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | indicates if field groups should have a label                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

Commit message:

feat: add x-attr 'form_group' to documentation concerning form creation

docs/source/create_forms.md, after:

# Create New Forms

Portfolio Backend allows to create custom form extensions.

```{warning}
Adapting Portfolio can lead to incompatibilities with other Portfolios and Showroom.
```

Necessary steps:

* Create a schema in `src/portfolio/core/schemas/entries`
* Add schema to [`ACTIVE_SCHEMAS`](./configuration.md#active_schemas) in django `.env`

## Specifications for Frontend

In order for the frontend to display the newly designed form properly, it is necessary to adapt the x-attributes
of each field accordingly, otherwise the display will always be a plain text field.

### Setting x-attributes for the Frontend

Available attributes:

| attribute             | relevant for                     | default*                                                                 | allowed values                                                                                                                    | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|-----------------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| hidden                | all                              | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | indicate if this data attribute should be considered for form creation (e.g. true for id)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| field_format          | all                              | full                                                                     | full, half                                                                                                                        |  specify if the field should fill full width or half in a form<br> (in case it is a 'half' field make sure it has a second 'half' field as well, otherwise the space will be empty)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| field_type            | all                              | text                                                                     | text, autocomplete, chips, chips-below, date, multiline, group                                                                    | which kind of field should be shown front-end:<br>**text**: simple text field<br> **autocomplete**: text field with autocomplete functionality (source needed!)<br> **chips**: input field with options (optional: dynamic autocomplete) that creates chips out of selected options<br>(if single or multi chips will be determined automatically from field type being an array or object)<br> **chips-below**: same as chips, however chips are not added inline but below the input field<br> **date**: a date field (different formats)<br> **multiline**: a multiline text field<br> **group**: indicates that the fields specified within should be grouped |

| form_group          | all                              | -                                                                     | 1, 2                                                                                                                         |  specify this value if you want your form separated upon type selection - all fields with '1' will stay on top, all fields with value '2' with move below the type specific fields |    

| placeholder           | all                              | -                                                                        | string or object                                                                                                                  | Add a placeholder displayed in the input field<br>  A string for all fields except date fields - there it should be an object with 'date' and (if necessary) 'time' attributes that contain the relevant string<br> default placeholder ('Enter xxx') can be added with utils function `placeholder_lazy(label)`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| order                 | all                              | this should be specified for all fields otherwise sorting will be random | number                                                                                                                            | this will specify the order in which the fields are displayed in the form                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| source                | chips, chips-below, autocomplete | -                                                                        | a API endpoint                                                                                                                    | if the field has a autocomplete functionality (autocomplete field or dynamic chips inputs (`dynamic_autosuggest = true`) or options (`dynamic_autosuggest = false`) this route is **required** to fetch these options<br> (the base url for the API is specified in the front end configuration)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| source_*              | chips, chips-below               | -                                                                        | a API endpoint                                                                                                                    | as above, to specify additional sources (URLs) for prefetching<br> (e.g. used for text types --> source_type or roles --> source_roles)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| prefetch              | chips, chips-below               | []                                                                       | e.g. 'source'                                                                                                                     | specify the attributes that contain an URL where options should be prefetched (=for chips inputs that are not dynamic!)<br> (for the example above e.g. 'source', 'source_types', 'source_roles')                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| set_label_language    | chips                            | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | specify if the field data have language specific content (e.g. { 'en': 'xxx', 'de': 'yyy' })<br> (e.g. true for languages or materials fields)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| date_format           | date                             | day                                                                      | day, month, year, date_year                                                                                                       | the format of the date field, if day, month or year it will only be possible to enter those, if date_year switch buttons will be displayed to allow switching between day and year format                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| dynamic_autosuggest   | chips                            | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | define if chips should have a dynamic autocomplete --> this means matching results are live fetched from the API on user input                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| allow_unknown_entries | chips                            | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | define if only options available in the chips input drop down can be used or user can just enter any string                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| sortable              | chips, chips-below               | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | should chips be sortable                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| default_role          | chips                            | -                                                                        | a contributors uri (as defined in VocBench/Skosmos) <br> e.g. http://base.uni-ak.ac.at/portfolio/vocabulary/software_developer    | this is relevant for all contributors related fields, in order to save the relevant role, a uri needs to be specified here<br> can be done with `function get_uri(role)`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| equivalent            | chips                            | -                                                                        | a field name, e.g. 'contributors'                                                                                                 | attribute to indicate that this field is connected to more general field (atm only used for contributors)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| show_label            | groups                           | False                                                                    | True, False                                                                                                                       | indicates if field groups should have a label                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
